docs/02.-Server-options.md, before:

## Server Options

> [!NOTE]
> If you want the latest config.yml docs, please look at the comments in `config_sample.yml`

TabbyAPI primarily uses a config.yml file to adjust various options. This is the preferred way and has the ability to adjust all options of TabbyAPI.

CLI arguments are also included, but those serve to *override* the options set in config.yml. Therefore, they act a bit differently compared to other programs, especially with booleans.
Example: A user sets `gpu_split_auto` to True. The CLI arg will then be `--gpu_split-auto False` to override that previous config.yml setting.

In addition, some config.yml options are too complex to represent as command args, so those are not included with the argparser.

All of these options have descriptive comments above them. You should not need to reference this documentation page unless absolutely necessary.

### Networking Options

| Config Option          | Type (Default)         | Description                                                                                                             |
| ---------------------- | ---------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| host                   | String (127.0.0.1)     | Set the IP address used for hosting TabbyAPI                                                                            |
| port                   | Int (5000)             | Set the TCP Port use for TabbyAPI                                                                                       |
| disable_auth           | Bool (False)           | Disables API authentication                                                                                             |
| disable_fetch_requests | Bool (False)           | Disables fetching external content when responding to requests (ex. fetching images from URLs)                          |
| send_tracebacks        | Bool (False)           | Send server tracebacks to client.<br><br>Note: It's not recommended to enable this if sharing the instance with others. |
| api_servers            | List[String] (["OAI"]) | API servers to enable. Possible values `"OAI", "Kobold"`                                                                |

### Logging Options

| Config Option         | Type (Default) | Description                                            |
| --------------------- | -------------- | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| log_prompt            | Bool (False)   | Logs prompts to the console                            |
| log_generation_params | Bool (False)   | Logs request generation options to the console         |
| log_requests          | Bool (False)   | Logs a request's URL, Body, and Headers to the console |

### Sampling Options

Note: This block is for sampling overrides, not samplers themselves.

| Config Option   | Type (Default) | Description                                                               |
| --------------- | -------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| override_preset | String (None)  | Startup the given sampler override preset in the sampler_overrides folder |

### Developer Options

Note: These are experimental flags that may be removed at any point.

| Config Option             | Type (Default) | Description                                                                                                                                     |
| ------------------------- | -------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| unsafe_launch             | Bool (False)   | Skips dependency checks on startup. Only recommended for debugging.                                                                             |
| disable_request_streaming | Bool (False)   | Forcefully disables streaming requests                                                                                                          |
| cuda_malloc_backend       | Bool (False)   | Uses pytorch's CUDA malloc backend to load models. Helps save VRAM.<br><br>Safe to enable.                                                      |
| realtime_process_priority | Bool (False)   | Set the process priority to "Realtime". Administrator/sudo access required, otherwise the priority is set to the highest it can go in userland. |

### Model Options

Note: Most of the options here will only apply on initial model load/startup (ephemeral). They will not persist unless you add the option name to `use_as_default`.

| Config Option         | Type (Default)                   | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| --------------------- | -------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| model_dir             | String ("models")                | Directory to look for models.<br><br>Note: Persisted across subsequent load requests                                                                                                                                           |
| inline_model_loading  | Bool (False)                     | Enables ability to switch models using the `model` argument in a generation request. More info in [Usage](https://github.com/theroyallab/tabbyAPI/wiki/03.-Usage#inline-loading)                                               |
| use_dummy_models      | Bool (False)                     | Send a dummy OAI model card when calling the `/v1/models` endpoint. Used for clients which enforce specific OAI models.<br><br>Note: Persisted across subsequent load requests                                                 |
| dummy_model_names     | List[String] (["gpt-3.5-turbo"]) | List of dummy names to send on model endpoint requests                                                                                                                                                                         |
| model_name            | String (None)                    | Folder name of a model to load. The below parameters will not apply unless this is filled out.                                                                                                                                 |
| use_as_default        | List[String] ([])                | Keys to use by default when loading models. For example, putting `cache_mode` in this array will make every model load with that value unless specified by the API request.<br><br>Note: Also applies to the `draft` sub-block |
| max_seq_len           | Float (None)                     | Maximum sequence length of the model. Uses the value from config.json if not specified here. Also called the max context length.                                                                                               |
| tensor_parallel       | Bool (False)                     | Enables tensor parallelism. Automatically falls back to autosplit if GPU split isn't provided. <br><br>Note: `gpu_split_auto` is ignored when this is enabled.                                                                 |
| gpu_split_auto        | Bool (True)                      | Automatically split the model across multiple GPUs. Manual GPU split isn't used if this is enabled.                                                                                                                            |
| autosplit_reserve     | List[Int] ([96])                 | Amount of empty VRAM to reserve when loading with autosplit.<br><br>Represented as an array of MB per GPU used.                                                                                                                |
| gpu_split             | List[Float] ([])                 | Float array of GBs to split a model between GPUs.                                                                                                                                                                              |
| rope_scale            | Float (1.0)                      | Adjustment for rope scale (or compress_pos_emb)                                                                                                                                                                                |
| rope_alpha            | Float (None)                     | Adjustment for rope alpha. Leave blank to automatically calculate based on the max_seq_len.                                                                                                                                    |
| cache_mode            | String ("FP16")                  | Cache mode for the model.<br><br>Options: FP16, Q8, Q6, Q4                                                                                                                                                                     |
| cache_size            | Int (max_seq_len)                | Size of the K/V cache<br><br>Note: If using CFG, the cache size should be 2 * max_seq_len.                                                                                                                                     |
| chunk_size            | Int (2048)                       | Amount of tokens per chunk with ingestion. A lower value reduces VRAM usage at the cost of ingestion speed.                                                                                                                    |
| max_batch_size        | Int (None)                       | The absolute maximum amount of prompts to process at one time. This value is automatically adjusted based on cache size.                                                                                                       |
| prompt_template       | String (None)                    | Name of a jinja2 chat template to apply for this model. Must be located in the `templates` directory.                                                                                                                          |
| vision                | Bool (False)                     | Enable vision support for the provided model (if it exists).                                                                                                                                                                   |
| num_experts_per_token | Int (None)                       | Number of experts to use per-token for MoE models. Pulled from the config.json if not specified.                                                                                                                               |

### Draft Model Options

Note: Sub-block of Model Options. Same rules apply.

| Config Option    | Type (Default)    | Description                                                                                |
| ---------------- | ----------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| draft_model_dir  | String ("models") | Directory to look for draft models.<br><br>Note: Persisted across subsequent load requests |
| draft_model_name | String (None)     | String: Folder name of a draft model to load.                                              |
| draft_rope_scale | Float (1.0)       | String: RoPE scale value for the draft model.                                              |
| draft_rope_alpha | Float (1.0)       | RoPE alpha value for the draft model. Leave blank for auto-calculation.                    |
| draft_cache_mode | String ("FP16")   | Cache mode for the draft model.<br><br>Options: FP16, Q8, Q6, Q4                           |
| draft_gpu_split  | List[Float] ([])  | Float array of GBs to split a draft model between GPUs.                                    |

### Lora Options

Note: Sub-block of Mode Options. Same rules apply.

| Config Option | Type (Default)   | Description                                                  |
|---------------|------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------|
| lora_dir      | String ("loras") | Directory to look for loras.<br><br>Note: Persisted across subsequent load requests |
| loras         | List[loras] ([]) | List of lora objects to apply to the model. Each object contains a name and scaling. |
| name          | String (None)    | Folder name of a lora to load.<br><br>Note: An element of the `loras` key |
| scaling       | Float (1.0)      | "Weight" to apply the lora on the parent model. For example, applying a lora with 0.9 scaling will lower the amount of application on the parent model.<br><br>Note: An element of the `loras` key |

### Embeddings Options

Note: Most of the options here will only apply on initial embedding model load/startup (ephemeral).

| Config Option        | Type (Default)    | Description                                                                                                                  |
| -------------------- | ----------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| embedding_model_dir  | String ("models") | Directory to look for embedding models.<br><br>Note: Persisted across subsequent load requests                               |
| embeddings_device    | String ("cpu")    | Device to load an embedding model on.<br><br>Options: cpu, cuda, auto<br><br>Note: Persisted across subsequent load requests |
| embedding_model_name | String (None)     | Folder name of an embedding model to load using infinity-emb.                                                                |

Commit message:

Config + Docs: Clarify YaRN rope scaling changes
In ExllamaV2, if a model has YaRN support, linear RoPE options are
not applied. Users can set max_seq_len and exl2 will take care of
the rest.

Signed-off-by: kingbri <8082010+kingbri1@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/02.-Server-options.md, after:

## Server Options

> [!NOTE]
> If you want the latest config.yml docs, please look at the comments in `config_sample.yml`

TabbyAPI primarily uses a config.yml file to adjust various options. This is the preferred way and has the ability to adjust all options of TabbyAPI.

CLI arguments are also included, but those serve to *override* the options set in config.yml. Therefore, they act a bit differently compared to other programs, especially with booleans.
Example: A user sets `gpu_split_auto` to True. The CLI arg will then be `--gpu_split-auto False` to override that previous config.yml setting.

In addition, some config.yml options are too complex to represent as command args, so those are not included with the argparser.

All of these options have descriptive comments above them. You should not need to reference this documentation page unless absolutely necessary.

### Networking Options

| Config Option          | Type (Default)         | Description                                                                                                             |
| ---------------------- | ---------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| host                   | String (127.0.0.1)     | Set the IP address used for hosting TabbyAPI                                                                            |
| port                   | Int (5000)             | Set the TCP Port use for TabbyAPI                                                                                       |
| disable_auth           | Bool (False)           | Disables API authentication                                                                                             |
| disable_fetch_requests | Bool (False)           | Disables fetching external content when responding to requests (ex. fetching images from URLs)                          |
| send_tracebacks        | Bool (False)           | Send server tracebacks to client.<br><br>Note: It's not recommended to enable this if sharing the instance with others. |
| api_servers            | List[String] (["OAI"]) | API servers to enable. Possible values `"OAI", "Kobold"`                                                                |

### Logging Options

| Config Option         | Type (Default) | Description                                            |
| --------------------- | -------------- | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| log_prompt            | Bool (False)   | Logs prompts to the console                            |
| log_generation_params | Bool (False)   | Logs request generation options to the console         |
| log_requests          | Bool (False)   | Logs a request's URL, Body, and Headers to the console |

### Sampling Options

Note: This block is for sampling overrides, not samplers themselves.

| Config Option   | Type (Default) | Description                                                               |
| --------------- | -------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| override_preset | String (None)  | Startup the given sampler override preset in the sampler_overrides folder |

### Developer Options

Note: These are experimental flags that may be removed at any point.

| Config Option             | Type (Default) | Description                                                                                                                                     |
| ------------------------- | -------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| unsafe_launch             | Bool (False)   | Skips dependency checks on startup. Only recommended for debugging.                                                                             |
| disable_request_streaming | Bool (False)   | Forcefully disables streaming requests                                                                                                          |
| cuda_malloc_backend       | Bool (False)   | Uses pytorch's CUDA malloc backend to load models. Helps save VRAM.<br><br>Safe to enable.                                                      |
| realtime_process_priority | Bool (False)   | Set the process priority to "Realtime". Administrator/sudo access required, otherwise the priority is set to the highest it can go in userland. |

### Model Options

Note: Most of the options here will only apply on initial model load/startup (ephemeral). They will not persist unless you add the option name to `use_as_default`.

| Config Option         | Type (Default)                   | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| --------------------- | -------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| model_dir             | String ("models")                | Directory to look for models.<br><br>Note: Persisted across subsequent load requests                                                                                                                                           |
| inline_model_loading  | Bool (False)                     | Enables ability to switch models using the `model` argument in a generation request. More info in [Usage](https://github.com/theroyallab/tabbyAPI/wiki/03.-Usage#inline-loading)                                               |
| use_dummy_models      | Bool (False)                     | Send a dummy OAI model card when calling the `/v1/models` endpoint. Used for clients which enforce specific OAI models.<br><br>Note: Persisted across subsequent load requests                                                 |
| dummy_model_names     | List[String] (["gpt-3.5-turbo"]) | List of dummy names to send on model endpoint requests                                                                                                                                                                         |
| model_name            | String (None)                    | Folder name of a model to load. The below parameters will not apply unless this is filled out.                                                                                                                                 |
| use_as_default        | List[String] ([])                | Keys to use by default when loading models. For example, putting `cache_mode` in this array will make every model load with that value unless specified by the API request.<br><br>Note: Also applies to the `draft` sub-block |
| max_seq_len           | Float (None)                     | Maximum sequence length of the model. Uses the value from config.json if not specified here. Also called the max context length.                                                                                               |
| tensor_parallel       | Bool (False)                     | Enables tensor parallelism. Automatically falls back to autosplit if GPU split isn't provided. <br><br>Note: `gpu_split_auto` is ignored when this is enabled.                                                                 |
| gpu_split_auto        | Bool (True)                      | Automatically split the model across multiple GPUs. Manual GPU split isn't used if this is enabled.                                                                                                                            |
| autosplit_reserve     | List[Int] ([96])                 | Amount of empty VRAM to reserve when loading with autosplit.<br><br>Represented as an array of MB per GPU used.                                                                                                                |
| gpu_split             | List[Float] ([])                 | Float array of GBs to split a model between GPUs.                                                                                                                                                                              |
| rope_scale            | Float (1.0)                      | Adjustment for rope scale (or compress_pos_emb)<br><br>Note: If the model has YaRN support, this option will not apply.                                                                                                                                                                                |
| rope_alpha            | Float (None)                     | Adjustment for rope alpha. Leave blank to automatically calculate based on the max_seq_len.<br><br>Note: If the model has YaRN support, this option will not apply.                                                                                                                                    |
| cache_mode            | String ("FP16")                  | Cache mode for the model.<br><br>Options: FP16, Q8, Q6, Q4                                                                                                                                                                     |
| cache_size            | Int (max_seq_len)                | Size of the K/V cache<br><br>Note: If using CFG, the cache size should be 2 * max_seq_len.                                                                                                                                     |
| chunk_size            | Int (2048)                       | Amount of tokens per chunk with ingestion. A lower value reduces VRAM usage at the cost of ingestion speed.                                                                                                                    |
| max_batch_size        | Int (None)                       | The absolute maximum amount of prompts to process at one time. This value is automatically adjusted based on cache size.                                                                                                       |
| prompt_template       | String (None)                    | Name of a jinja2 chat template to apply for this model. Must be located in the `templates` directory.                                                                                                                          |
| vision                | Bool (False)                     | Enable vision support for the provided model (if it exists).                                                                                                                                                                   |
| num_experts_per_token | Int (None)                       | Number of experts to use per-token for MoE models. Pulled from the config.json if not specified.                                                                                                                               |

### Draft Model Options

Note: Sub-block of Model Options. Same rules apply.

| Config Option    | Type (Default)    | Description                                                                                |
| ---------------- | ----------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| draft_model_dir  | String ("models") | Directory to look for draft models.<br><br>Note: Persisted across subsequent load requests |
| draft_model_name | String (None)     | String: Folder name of a draft model to load.                                              |
| draft_rope_scale | Float (1.0)       | String: RoPE scale value for the draft model.                                              |
| draft_rope_alpha | Float (1.0)       | RoPE alpha value for the draft model. Leave blank for auto-calculation.                    |
| draft_cache_mode | String ("FP16")   | Cache mode for the draft model.<br><br>Options: FP16, Q8, Q6, Q4                           |
| draft_gpu_split  | List[Float] ([])  | Float array of GBs to split a draft model between GPUs.                                    |

### Lora Options

Note: Sub-block of Mode Options. Same rules apply.

| Config Option | Type (Default)   | Description                                                  |
|---------------|------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------|
| lora_dir      | String ("loras") | Directory to look for loras.<br><br>Note: Persisted across subsequent load requests |
| loras         | List[loras] ([]) | List of lora objects to apply to the model. Each object contains a name and scaling. |
| name          | String (None)    | Folder name of a lora to load.<br><br>Note: An element of the `loras` key |
| scaling       | Float (1.0)      | "Weight" to apply the lora on the parent model. For example, applying a lora with 0.9 scaling will lower the amount of application on the parent model.<br><br>Note: An element of the `loras` key |

### Embeddings Options

Note: Most of the options here will only apply on initial embedding model load/startup (ephemeral).

| Config Option        | Type (Default)    | Description                                                                                                                  |
| -------------------- | ----------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| embedding_model_dir  | String ("models") | Directory to look for embedding models.<br><br>Note: Persisted across subsequent load requests                               |
| embeddings_device    | String ("cpu")    | Device to load an embedding model on.<br><br>Options: cpu, cuda, auto<br><br>Note: Persisted across subsequent load requests |
| embedding_model_name | String (None)     | Folder name of an embedding model to load using infinity-emb.                                                                |
