# Tool Calling in TabbyAPI

> [!NOTE]
> Before getting started here, please look at the [Custom templates](https://github.com/theroyallab/tabbyAPI/wiki/04.-Chat-Completions#custom-templates) page for foundational concepts.
> 
> Thanks to [Storm](https://github.com/gittb) for creating this documentation page.

TabbyAPI's tool calling implementation aligns with the [OpenAI Standard](https://platform.openai.com/docs/api-reference), following the [OpenAI Tools Implementation](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/function-calling) closely.

## Features and Limitations

TabbyAPI's tool implementation supports:
- Tool calling when streaming
- Calling multiple tools per turn

Current limitations:
- No support for `tool_choice` parameter (always assumed to be auto)
- `strict` parameter not yet supported (OAI format ensured, but dtype and argument name choices not yet enforced)

## Model Support

TabbyAPI exposes controls within the `prompt_template` to accommodate models specifically tuned for tool calling and those that aren't. By default, TabbyAPI includes `chatml_with_headers_tool_calling.jinja`, a generic template built to support the Llama 3.1 family and other models following the ChatML (with headers) format.

For more templates, check out [llm-prompt-templates](https://github.com/theroyallab/llm-prompt-templates).

## Usage

In order to use tool calling in TabbyAPI, you must select a `prompt_template` that supports tool calling when loading your model. 

For example, if you are using a Llama 3.1 Family model you can simply modify your `config.yml`'s `prompt_template:` to use the default tool calling template like so:

   ```yaml
   model:
     ...
     prompt_template: tool_calls/chatml_with_headers
   ```

If loading via `/v1/model/load`, you would also need to specify a tool-supporting `prompt_template`.

## Tool Template Variables

- `tools`: Tools object.

## Creating a Tool Calling Prompt Template

Here's how to create a TabbyAPI tool calling prompt template:

1. Define proper metadata:

    Tool Call supporting `prompt_templates` can have the following fields as metadata:
    - `tool_start` This is a string that we expect the model to write when initating a tool call. **(Required)**
    - `tool_end` This is a string the model expects after completing a tool call.

    Here is an example of these being defined:

   ```jinja
   {# Metadata #} 
   {%- set stop_strings = ["<|im_start|>", "<|im_end|>"] -%}
   {%- set tool_start = "<|tool_start|>" -%}

   {# Optional Metadata #}
   {%- set tool_end = "<|tool_end|>" -%}
   ```
   
   `tool_start` and `tool_end` should be selected based on which model you decide to use. For example, [Groq's Tool calling models](https://huggingface.co/Groq/Llama-3-Groq-70B-Tool-Use) expects `<tool_call>` and `</tool_call>` while [Llama3 FireFunctionV2's](https://huggingface.co/fireworks-ai/llama-3-firefunction-v2) model expects only `functools` to start the call, without a `tool_end`

2. Define an `initial_system_prompt`:
   
   While the name of your `inital_system_prompt` can vary, it's purpose does not. This initial prompt is typically a simple instruction set followed by accessing the `tools` template variable.
   
   This will contain the function specification the user provided to the `tools` endpoint in their client when the chat completion request. Inside the template we can call this like so: `{{ tools | tojson }}`.

> [!NOTE]
> Depending on the model you are using, it's possible your model may expect a special set of tokens to surround the function specifications. Feel free to surround `tools_json` with these tokens.

> [!NOTE]
> To get a JSON representation of the tools variable, use `| tojson(indent=2)` in the assignment

   ```jinja
   {% set initial_system_prompt %}
   Your instructions here...
   Available functions:
   {{ tools | tojson(indent=2) }}
   {% endset %}
   ```

   You'll then want to make sure to provide this to the model in the first message it receives. Here is a simple example:

   ```jinja
   {%- if loop.first -%}
   {{ bos_token }}{{ start_header }}{{ role }}{{ end_header }}
   {{ inital_system_prompt }}

   {{ content }}{{ eos_token }}
   ```

4. Handle messages with the `tool` role:

   After a tool call is made, a *well behaved* client will respond to the model with a new message containing the role `tool`. This is a response to a tool call containing the results of it's execution.

   The simplest implementation of this will be to ensure your `message_roles` list within your prompt template contains `tool`. Further customization may be required for models that expect specific tokens surrounding tool responses. An example of this customization is the Groq family of models from above. They expect special tokens surrounding their tool responses such as:

   ```jinja
   {% if role == 'tool' %}
   <tool_response>{{ content }}</tool_response>
   {% endif %}
   ```

5. Preserve tool calls from prior messages:
   
   When creating a tool calling `prompt_template`, ensure you handle previous tool calls from the model gracefully. Each `message` object within `messages` exposed within the `prompt_template` could also contain `tool_calls`.
   
   This field will contain tool calls made by the assistant in previous turns, and must be handled appropriately so that the model understands what previous actions it has taken (and can properly identify what tool response ID belongs to which call).
   
   This will require using the `tool_start` (and possibly `tool_end`) from above to wrap the `tool_call` object like so:

   ```jinja
   {% if 'tool_calls' in message and message['tool_calls'] %}
   {{ tool_start }}{{ message['tool_calls'] | tojson(indent=2) }}{{ tool_end }}
   {% endif %}
   ```

6. Add the generation prompt check at the end:
   ```jinja
   {% if add_generation_prompt %}
   {{ start_header }}assistant{{ end_header }}
   {% endif %}
   ```

> [!NOTE]
> When creating your own tool calling template, it's best to reference the default `chatml_with_headers` template as a starting point.
## Support and Bug Reporting

For bugs, please create a detailed issue with the model, prompt template, and conversation that caused it. Alternatively, join our [Discord](https://discord.gg/sYQxnuD7Fj) and ask for Storm.
